One who is a kindly benefactor thinks, “I will cure the headaches of beings.”Thus by this benevolent
intention he has acquired immeasurable merit.

How much more the one whishing to remove the infinite ache of every single beingand for each
one to create infinite virtue!

Whose mother or father is endowed with this benevolent desire?To what gods or sages or brahmans
does it belong?

Even in sleep this desire has not previously arisen for these people,not even in self-interest:
How much less its appearance for the sake of others?

This unprecedented, distinctive jewel among beings: How is it given birth?This intention which
is for the welfare of others does not appear in others even in self-interest.

This merit—of the seed of the world’s joy, of the medicine for the world’s sorrow,of the jewel
of the mind: How, indeed, may it be measured?

The worship of Buddhas is excelled by merely having a desire for goodness:How much more by zeal
for the total welfare of all beings?

Eager to escape sorrow, men rush into sorrow; from desire of happiness they blindly slay their
own happiness, enemies to themselves;

they hunger for happiness and suffer manifold pains; whence shall come one so kind as he who
can satisfy them with all manner of happiness, allay all their pains,

shatter their delusion—whence such a friend, and whence such a holy deed?

He who repays good deed with a good deed is praised; what shall be said of the Son of Enlightenment,
who does kindness unsought?

He who sets a banquet before a few is called “doer of righteousness,” and is honoured by the
world, because in his pride he entertains men for half a day with brief largesse of mere
food;

but what of him who bestows on a measureless number of creatures a satisfaction of all desires
unbounded in time and perishing not when the world of heaven perishes?

Such is the Master of the Banquet, the Son of the Conqueror; whosoever sins in his heart against
him, saith the Lord, shall abide in hell as many ages as the moments of his sins.

But he whose spirit is at peace with them shall thence get abundant fruit; and truly, wrong
to the Sons of the Conqueror can be done only by great effort, but kindness towards them is
easy.

I do homage to the bodies of them in whom has arisen the choice jewel of the Thought, and even
the ill-treatment of whom leads to happiness; in these mines of bliss I seek my refuge.

Chapter I: The Praise of the Thought of Enlightenment

