Reverently bowing before the Blessed Ones, their Sons, the Body of the Law, and all the worshipful
ones, I will briefly set forth in accordance with Holy Writ the way whereby the sons
of the Blessed Ones enter the godly life.

Nothing new will be told here, nor have I skill in writing of books; therefore I have done this
work to hallow my own thoughts, not designing it for the welfare of others.

By it the holy impulse within me to frame righteousness is strengthened; but if a fellow-creature
should see it, this my book will fulfil another end likewise.

This brief estate, which once gotten is a means to all the aims of mankind, is exceeding hard
to win; if one use it not for wholesome reflection, how shall it ever come again to his
lot?

As in the night, amidst the gross darkness of the clouds, the lightning shows for an instant
its radiance, so by the grace of the Enlightened it may hap that the mind of man turn for
an instant to holy works.

Thus righteousness is feeble, and the power of evil is constant, mighty, and dire; by what righteousness
could it be overcome, if there were not the Thought of Enlightenment?

Pondering through many aeons, the Supreme Saints have found this blessing, whereby a swelling
joy sweeps in sweetness down the boundless waters of mankind.

They who would escape the hundreds of life’s sorrows, who would end the anguish of living creatures,
and who would taste hundreds of deep delights, must never surrender the Thought of
Enlightenment.

The wretch held in thrall by Life’s minions is declared a son of the Blessed Ones straightaway
when the Thought of Enlightenment arises in him, and he becomes worshipful to the worlds
of men and gods.

This foul form that he has taken he makes into the priceless jewel of a Conqueror’s form; oh,
grasp firmly the Thought of Enlightenment, that exceedingly potent elixir!

Ho, ye who are exiles in the marts of bodied being, grasp firmly the precious jewel of the Thought
of Enligtenment, which the immeasurably wise sole Guides of the world’s caravan have
well assayed!

Like the plantain-tree, all other righteousness fades away after its fruit is cast; but the
tree of the Thought of Enlightenment bears everlasting fruit and fades not, but is ever fecund.

Though he have wrought most grievous sins, a man by taking refuge therein escapes them straightaway;
as ignorant beings under the guardianship of a mighty man escape sore terrors, why
seek they not their refuge in this?

Like the time of fire at the end of a world cycle, it instantly consumes the greatest evils;its
immeasurable benefits were taught to [the disciple] Sudhana by the wise Lord Maitreya.

This Thought of Enlightenment is to be understood as twofold.Briefly, it is the idea of dedication
to Enlightenment and then the actual pilgrimage towards it.

As concisely stated by learned men, this difference isthat between a traveller and someone desirous
of travelling.

The idea of dedication to Enlightenment brings great fruit even on the wheel of rebirth,but
not the uninterrupted meritoriousness of the mind which is set upon departure.

As soon as one undertakes to free himself from the unbounded realms of living beings,he concentrates
his mind with steadfast thought;

that soon, in spite of sleep and repeated excitement,floods of merit, equal to the sky, begin
to flow without ceasing.

This the Buddha himself correctly has asserted in the [scripture] Subāhupṛcchafor the sake of
beings of lesser aspiration.

