Lying here on my bed, or standing amidst my kin, I must suffer the agonies of dissolution alone.

Whence shall I find a kinsman, whence a friend, when the Death-god’s messengers seize me? Righteousness
alone can save me then, and for that I have not sought.

Clinging to brief life, I have been blind to this terror, heedless; O my Masters, grievous guilt
have I gathered.

He who is taken to be maimed of his limbs at once withers away; thirst racks him, his sight
is darkened, the world is changed to his sight.

How then will it be with me when I am in the charge of the Death-god’s hideous messengers, consumed
by a fever of mighty terror, covered with filth,

looking with timid glances to the four quarters of heaven for aid? Who will be the friend to
save me from that awful terror?

I shall see in the heavens no help, and sink back into madness; then what shall I do in that
place of horror?

Now, now I come for refuge to the mighty Lords of the world, the Conquerors eager for the world’s
protection, who allay all fear;

to the Law learned by them I come with all my heart for refuge, and to the Congregation of the
Sons of Enlightenment.

Trembling with fear, I give myself to Samantabhadra,and again I give myself, by my own action,
to Mañjughoṣa;

and to the Lord Avalokita, who is entirely occupied with the practice of compassion,I, who am
terrified, cry aloud a cry of suffering, “May he protect me, a sinner!”

To the noble Ākāśagarbha and to Kṣitigarbha, and indeed to all the great Compassionate Beings,I
cry aloud, looking for protection.

And I worship the Lord of the Thunderbolt. When they have seen him,the messengers of death and
the other evil beings are frightened and they flee to the four directions.

I now go terrified to you for refuge—after having neglected your instruction,because of beholding
fear. May you quickly extinguish fear.

Dreading even a passing disease, one would not violate the command of a physician.Why, then,
after being ravaged by four hundred and four diseases?

Yet all men dwelling in Jambudvīpa [India]perish because of even a single disease for which
no medicine is found.

Because I violate the command of the all-knowing Physician,the one who in such a case takes
away all cause of pain, shameful is my complete confusion!

I will stand with extreme care upon any other precipice;why not, then, upon that precipice which
is a thousand worlds in depth and of immense duration?

Perhaps death does not come today, but nonetheless I ought not to be at ease;inevitably the
hour comes when I shall not exist.

By whom is security given to me? and how shall I escape?Inevitably I shall not exist. How can
the mind be composed?

