Upon all jewels of the true Dharma, shrines, and images,may the rains of flowers, jewels, and
such, fall without end.

As Mañjughoṣa and the others worship the Conquerors,thus I worship the Lord Buddhas and their
sons;

and I praise with hymns, with oceans of sound, these Seas of Virtue.Let clouds of singing praise
unfailingly arise to them.

With as many obeisances as there are atoms in all the Domains I adore all the Enlightened Ones
of the past, present, and future, the Law, and the noble Congregation.

I worship all the memorial-sanctuaries and the dwellings of the Son of the Enlightened; I salute
the preceptors and the worshipful holy men.

I take refuge with the Enlightened One, awaiting the coming of the perfect Light; I take refuge
in the Law and the Congregation of sons of Enlightenment.

With clasped hands I make supplication to the Enlightened Ones dwelling in all regions and to
the most merciful Sons of Enlightenment.

Whatever be the sin that I, poor brute, in my beginningless round of past births or in this
birth have in my madness done or made others do

or approved for my own undoing, I confess the transgression thereof, and am stricken with remorse.

Whatsoever wrong I have done by sin against the Three Gems or father and mother or other elders
by deed, word, or thought,

whatever dire offence has been wrought by me, a sinner foul with many a stain, O Masters, I
confess all.

How can I escape from it? I am eternally fearful, Lords.Let death not be soon, because of my
despair that my evil has not diminished.

How may I escape from it? Speedily save me, lest death come too soon upon me ere my sin have
faded away.

Death considers not what works be done or not done, and strikes us through our ease, a sudden
thunderbolt, unsure alike for the healthy and the sick.

For the sake of things unloved and things loved have I sinned these many times; and never have
I thought that I must surrender everything and depart.

They whom I love not, they whom I love, I myself, shall be no more, naught shall remain.

All the things whereof I have feeling shall pass away into a memory; like the vision of a dream,
all departs, and is seen no more.

The many whom I love or love not pass away while I stand here; only the dire sin wrought for
their sake remains before me.

I understood not that I was but a chance comer, and through madness, love, or hatred I have
wrought many a sin.

Unceasingly through night and day the waning of vital force increases; must I not die?

