To win this jewel of the Thought I offer perfect worship to the Blessed Ones, to the stainless
gem of the Good Law, and to the Sons of the Enlightened, oceans of virtues.

All flowers, fruits, and healing herbs, all gems and all waters clear and pleasent in the world,

likewise mountains of jewels, forests sweet in their solitude, climbing plants bright with ornaments
of flowers, trees whose branches bend with goodly fruit,

fragrant incenses, trees of desire, and jewel-bearing trees in the worlds of the gods and their
kin, lakes bedecked with lilies and wondrously pleasant with the cries of swans,

harvests springing without tilth and crops of grain, and all else adorning them whom we worship,
all things that are bounded by the spreading ethereal sphere and are in the possession
of none,

I take in spirit and offer as guerdon to the Supreme Saints and their Sons. Worthy of choicest
gifts and great of compassion, may they mercifully accept this of me!

I am exceeding poor, and without righteousness; there is naught else for me to offer. So may
their care for others’ weal be for my weal, and let the Lords take this in their native grace.

Yea, I give to the Conquerors and their Sons myself entirely. Take me for your chattel, O noble
beings; I make myself in love your slave.

By being your chattel I am freed from fear in life, and work good for living creatures; I escape
my former sins, and do evil no more.

In their houses of perfumed bathing, with delightful pillars of blazing jewels,with canopies
shining with pearls, with their mosaic pavements brilliant and clear;

I myself will prepare the bath of the Buddhas and their sons, with the playing of songs,using
many water jars encrusted with great jewels and filled with flowers and fragrant waters
agreeable to the mind.

With garments perfumed, purified of dirt, unequaled, I dry their bodies.Then I give them well-coloured,
well-perfumed, choice robes.

With celestial, delicate, smooth, varied, handsome garments, with choice ornaments;with such
as these I adorn Samantabhadra, Ajita, Mañjughoṣa, Lokeśvara, and the rest.

With the perfumes which pervade all of the three thousand worlds, with the uttermost perfumes,I
anoint the bodies of all the great sages, who shine, with a radiance like well-refined,
well-polished, and well-cleaned, gold.

With the blossoms of the coral tree, the blue lotus, jasmine, and the like;with all perfumed
and delightful flowers, I praise the most praiseworthy best of sages with beautifully formed
garlands.

I envelop them with clouds of incense, delighting the mind with dense, expanding aromas;and
I offer to them an offering of various moist and dry foods and libations.

I offer them jewel lamps placed in rows on golden lotuses;and on mosaic pavements anointed with
perfume I scatter many pleasing flowers.

Celestial clouds delightful as songs of praise, ornamenting the four directions,shining as garlands
of gems and pearl necklaces: These also I offer to the Benevolent Ones.

I place before those who are the great sages lofty jewel parasols encrusted with pearls,exceedingly
handsome, with pleasingly shaped golden handles.

Hereafter may delightful clouds of worship arise,and clouds of music and song which thrill all
creatures.

