I rejoice exceedingly in all creatures’ good works that end the sorrows of their evil lot; may
the sorrowful find happiness!

I rejoice in the deliverance of embodied beings from the griefs of life’s wanderings, and in
the Sonship of Enlightenment, and the Enlightenment that belongs to the Saviours.

I rejoice in the Commanders’ oceans of Thought, that bring happiness and establish welfare for
all creatures.

With clasped hands I entreat the perfectly Enlightened Ones who stand in all regions that they
kindle the lamp of the Law for them who in their blindness fall into sorrow.

With clasped hands I pray the Conquerors who yearn for the Stillness that they abide here for
endless aeons, lest this world become blind.

In reward for all this righteousness that I have won by my works I would fain become soother
of all the sorrows of all creatures.

May I be a balm to the sick, their healer and servitor, until sickness come never again;

may I quench with rains of food and drink the anguish of hunger and thirst; may I be in the
famine of the ages’ end their drink and meat;

may I become an unfailing store for the poor, and serve them with manifold things for their
need.

My own being and my pleasures, all my righteousness in the past, present, and future I surrender
indifferently, that all creatures may win to their end.

The Stillness lies in surrender of all things, and my spirit is fain for the Stillness; if I
must surrender all, it is best to give it for fellow-creatures.

I yield myself to all living things to deal with me as they list; they may smite or revile me
for ever, bestrew me with dust,

play with my body, laugh and wanton; I have given them my body, why shall I care?

Let them make me do whatever works bring them pleasure; but may never mishap befall any of them
by reason of me.

If the spirit of any be wroth or pleased with me, may that be ever a cause for them to win all
their desires.

May all who slander me, or do me hurt, or jeer at me, gain a share in Enlightenment.

I would be a protector of the unprotected, a guide of wayfarers, a ship, a dyke, and a bridge
for them who seek the further Shore;

a lamp for them who need a lamp, a bed for those who need a bed, a slave for all beings who
need a slave.

I would be a magic gem, a lucky jar, a spell of power, a sovereign balm, a wishing-tree, a cow
of plenty, for embodied beings.

As the earth and other elements are for the manifold service of the countless creatures dwelling
in the whole of space,

