The son of the Conqueror, who has thus firmly laid hold of the Thought of Enlightenment, must
constantly strive without slackening to observe the rule.

If a work be undertaken in haste and without right reflection, one may well consider whether
it should be done or no, even though a vow have been made;

but how should I delay in this work, which has been propounded by the Enlightened Ones, by their
most sake Sons, and by me likewise according to the measure of my power?

If I fulfil not my vow by deeds, I shall be false to all beings, and what a fate will be mine!

Even of a small matter it is said that he who gives not what he has purposed in thought to give
becomes a tortured ghost;

how, then, shall it be with him who proffers aloud and earnestly the gift of supreme happiness?
I shall be false to all the world, and what a fate will be mine!

Only the All-knowing One understands the inscrutable course of actionwhich releases those men
even after the Thought of Enlightenment has been forsaken.

Every transgression of the Bodhisattva is of extreme gravity,since, as he transgresses, the
welfare of all beings is destroyed because of it.

Anyone who creates an obstacle to his merit, even for an instant, has no limit to his misfortune;because
he destroys the welfare of others.

Indeed, the one who has smitten the benefactor of even a single being, will be smitten.How much
more when he smites the beings who dwell throughout the immensity of all space?

As a consequence he is buffeted in the cycle of rebirth between the power of transgression and
the power of the Thought of Enlightenment;he delays a long while in the obtaining of the
stages leading to Enlightenment.

Therefore I must heedfully fulfil my vow; if I labour not this very day, down, down I fall.

Numberless are the Enlightened who have passed by in search of all living beings; and through
my own fault I have not come into their healing hands.

If this day also I shall be as I have been again and again, misery, sickness, death, maiming,
dismemberment, and the like will fall to my lot;

and when shall I win that most rare boon, the coming of one of the Enlightened, faith, human
birth, and fitness to labour in righteousness,

a day of health with food and no vexations? Life is a brief instant, and plays us false; the
body is like a thing held in precarious tenure.

Truly with deeds such as mine have been I shall not again win human birth; and if I win it not,
evil awaits me; whence should good come?

Since I work not righteous when I am able, how shall I do it when crazed by the pains of hell?

I do no righteous work, and gather sin; the very name of good destiny is lost to me for millions
of aeons.

Therefore the Lord has said that human birth is exceedingly hard to win; hard as for a turtle
to pass its neck into the hole of a yoke in the ocean.

