Because of the evil wrought in a single instant, one is placed in the Avīci hell for an aeon.Because
of the evil accumulated in an eternity of time, a good state is out of the question.

Even after having experienced that duration [of sorrow], one is not released,because while it
is being experienced other evil is begotten.

Having obtained a brief moment which is endowed with such qualities,there is certainly no greater
deception and no greater stupidity than not applying myself to goodness;

and if, indeed, I am again distressed and I sit stupidly inactive,once more I shall burn for
a long while as I am driven on by the messengers of death.

Long will my body burn in the intolerable fires of hell.Long will my unruly mind burn in the
flame of remorse.

I have found this most rare sphere or weal, I know not how; and shall I with open eyes suffer
myself to be borne back to these hells?

My thought cannot grasp it, like one who is driven mad by spells, I know not by whom I am crazed
or who possesses me.

My foes, Desire, Hate, and their kindred, are handless and footless, they are neither valiant
nor cunning; how can they have enslaved me?

But they dwell in my spirit, and there at their ease smite me. And withal I am not wroth with
them, fie on my unseemly long-suffering!

If all gods and mankind were my foes, they could not drag me to the fire of the hell Avīcī;

but into this flame, at the touch whereof not even ashes would remain of Meru, these mighty
enemies the Passions hurl me in an instant:

No other foes have life so long as the beginningless, endless, everlasting life of my enemies
the Passions.

All beings may be turned by submission to kindness; but these Passions become all the more vexatious
by my submission.

Then whilst these everlasting foes, sole source of the birth of the floods of sorrow, are dwelling
in my heart, how can I fearlessly rejoice in the life of the flesh?

Whence can I have happiness, if these warders of the prison-house of existence, ay, these torturers
of the damned in hell and elsewhere, lodge in the house of my spirit, in the bower
of my desire?

Then I will not lay down my burden until these foes be smitten before my eyes. Men of lofty
spirit are stirred to wrath against even a mean offender, and sleep not until they have smitten
him.

They rage in the forefront of battle, furious, heeding not the anguish of wounds from arrows
and javelins, to strike fiercely at the poor creatures doomed by nature to death, and turn
not away until they have fulfilled their purpose.

How then, and for what reason, should I, who have set myself to strike down these natural foes,
the constant causes of all miseries, sink down in base despair, even for hundreds of disasters?

Men bear on their limbs, like ornaments, meaningless scars gotten from their enemies; why should
sufferings overcome me, who am labouring to accomplish a lofty end?

Setting their thoughts upon their mere livelihood, fishers, Chaṇḍālas, husbandmen, and the like
bear the miseries of cold, heat, and the rest; why should not I suffer them for the weal
of the world?

