In this birth neither that which was before not that which will be afterwards is remembered
or perceived.It does not perceive itself, nor is it perceived by another.

There is not a knower, therefore there is not really any sensation.Since this bundle is composed
of nothing, how can one be oppressed by it?

The mind is not in the senses, or in shapes, or within.Thought, also, is not grasped inside
or outside or anywhere else.

Whatever is not the body and not otherwise—not combined and not isolated—what is it?It is because
of this that beings are by nature completely in Nirvāṇa.

If knowledge is prior to that which is known, what is its original support?If knowledge is simultaneous
with that which is known, what is its original support?

Likewise, if it should be subsequent to that which is known, then from where can knowledge come?And
so the arising of all momentary impressions is impossible.

If, in this way, there is nothing hidden, then why two truths?or rather, if something is hidden,
why are beings released?

The one [who is released] is the imagination of another’s thought; but he does not exist because
of being hidden.He is arrived at afterwards. Likewise, if he does not exist, his hiddenness
does not exist.

The imagination and the thing imagined are both mutually dependent.Thus it is said that all
examination is dependent upon the prearranged.

But if that to be examined is examined by what is already examined,then there is no validity
to that examination by what is already examined.

When what is to be examined has been examined by what is examined,then there is no validity
to that examination by what is already examined.

But they for whom this is truth are in a perpetually bad position.If an object is dependent
upon knowledge, what has become of the reality of knowledge?

Likewise, if knowledge is dependent upon that which is to be known, what has become of the reality
of that which is to be known?Because of mutual dependence, the reality of both is nullified.

If there is no father without a son, what is the origin of the son?If there is no son, the father
does not exist. Thus the nonreality of both of them.

The plant is born from the seed, and the seed is indicated by it:Why is it not understood that
[so-called] reality has arisen only by means of knowing that which is [thought to be] knowable?

From the plant it is understood that there exists a seed; from knowledge, the contrary.Whence
the idea of the existence of knowledge, by means of which whatever is to be known is known?

The world, by merely visible perception, regards causation as universal.From a variety of causes
arises the variety of the lotus, its stalk and the like.

And what has made this variety of cause? The variety of antecedent cause.And why does cause
produce effect? The efficacy of the antecedent cause.

The Lord is the cause of the world? Then explain who is the Lord.If he is the elements, let
it be so. What pains are bestowed upon a mere name!

But the earth and the other [elements] are not the Lord. They are multiple;some are transient
and without activity and ungodly; they may even be neglected and they are impure.

