Thus when light is seen by others, it is seen irrespective of darkness.It may not make itself
dark by itself when it is not dark.Likewise, what darkness can make itself dark by itself?It
cannot make itself dark by itself when it is not dark.

The experience of knowing that a lamp illumines is affirmed by knowledge.The experience of knowing
that intelligence illumines, by what is this affirmed.

That it is illumined or not illumined, as long as it is seen by no one whatsoever,is as uselessly
affirmed as the charm of a barren woman’s daughter.

If there is no act of self-knowledge, how is consciousness remembered?Memory is from an association
with an exterior perception, as the poison is to the rat.

The self [it is argued] is illumined by observing its association with proximate causes;but
the jar which is found by the use of magical ointment is not that ointment itself.

In this way, what is seen, what is heard, what is known, is, indeed, never denied;but still
this hypothesis does not destroy the cause of sorrow.

If it is affirmed that the thing that is not illusion is none other than that which is created
by thought—if that is the real, how is it other than a fabrication of illusion if it really
does not exist?

If that which is seen is as unreal as illusion, then so is the one who sees the mind.If the
realms of rebirth are based on reality, they must be as different [from reality] as the sky
is different from reality.

When reality is based on nonreality, how can you be the one who acts?Indeed, your thought needs
one companion, the nonexistent.

As long as thought is destitute of an object, then all are Buddhas.Moreover, when there is only
thought, what merit is obtainable?

But [it is argued] if it is understood that thought is only the likeness of illusion, how is
passion turned aside?Even as she is created, the magician falls in love with the māyā woman.

Indeed, the impression of passion, still to be understood by the magician, has not been worn
out.In that moment of beholding her, his impression of the Void is weak.

By holding to the impression of the Void, it is realized that the impression of existence is
nothing at all;and, afterwards, by repetition, even this is discarded.

When an existence is not accepted of which it may be said that it does not exist,then, nonexistence
is without foundation: How again can it stand before the mind?

When neither existence nor nonexistence is presented again to the mind,then, through lack of
any other possibility, that which is without support becomes tranquil.

As a wishing stone and a wishing tree are the fulfilment of desire,so the Body of the Conqueror
is seen because of his discipline and his vow.

As a snake charmer perishes after having completed a pillar [of healing],even a long time after
his perishing it still cures the effect of poison:

So also the Conqueror-pillar, having been completed by conformity to the Way of Enlightenment,does
all that is to be done, even when the Bodhisattva has disappeared.

How can there be fruits when worship is made to a being without thought?Because it is taught
that the one who stands [the living Buddha] and the one who is extinguished [the Buddha in
Nirvāna] are equal.

And according to the Scripture, fruit is there, whether in the hidden realm or in the really
real.Otherwise, how can it be thought that worshiping the true Buddha is fruitful?

