If there is consciousness of sound, then sound must always be perceived;for without an object
of consciousness, how does one know that by which consciousness is explained?

If unconscious things are conscious, the consciousness would cling to wood.It is certain that
there is no consciousness without an object of consciousness contiguous to it.

If form gives birth [to consciousness], then why does it not hear?Because there is no connection
with sound? But then it is not consciousness.

Whatever consists of the perceiving of sound, how is it the perceiving of form?One person is
considered both father and son, but it is not really so.

If there are really light, heat, and darkness, there is consequently neither son nor father.But
one who is intent upon the perceiving of sound does not see their true nature.

Thus it is perceived by another nature, which is transient, like an actor.If this is really
the nature of another, this unity is unprecedented.

If that other nature is unreal, let its innate nature be explained.If it is the faculty of knowing,
then all men are identical,

and both the conscious and the unconscious are identical, because of their common existence.Insofar
as difference is only apparent, what then is the basis of their identity?

The Ego [it is argued] is not unconscious because of [native] unconsciousness, like cloth, and
the like,but it is conscious because of union with consciousness. The result is the destruction
of unconsciousness.

But [it is argued] the self is immutable. What then happens to consciousness?Its essence is
imagined to be like space: uncreated and unconscious!

But [it is argued] there is no union of cause and effect, if not yoked together by the self.When
one has perished after creating a cause, whose will the effect be then?

We two are indeed in agreement that the act and the effect have different supports;but if then
it is said that the self has no function, discussion certainly is useless.

If it is said that the effect is united with the cause, this union is never seen.If it has been
taught that the one who acts is the one who enjoys the act, [that would involve] recourse
to a unity of the phenomenal series.

The Ego is neither the past nor the future thought, because that is seen not to exist.But if
the Ego is the production of thought, when that has disappeared the Ego does not exist.

Just as the stem of a banana tree does not exist when it has been divided into parts,so the
Ego likewise has become unreal by being examined reflectively.

It may be thought that because a being cannot be found, there is no one upon whom to bestow
compassion;but whatever is done [even] in a state of confusion is because of a purpose.

Yet if there is no being, whose is the purpose? Truly the effort is illusionary;but because
it is for the sake of tranquilizing sorrow, the delusion of purpose is not forbidden.

Because of the delusion of self, the concept of one’s individuality, the cause of sorrow, is
increased.Since it is destroyed in no other way, the concept of nonself is preferred.

The body is not the feet or the legs or the breast.Neither is the body, the hips, the belly,
the back, nor the arms.

It is likewise not the hands or the sides or the armpits or the shoulders or any external mark.The
body is not the neck or the head. What then is the body?

