It follows that when in a dream one’s son is destroyed, he is not thought to be an object of
imagination.The false assumption which has arisen eliminates his existence, which is also
false.

It thus follows from this examination that there is nothing whatever without causationand there
is likewise nothing contained in causes, whether in their totality or in their parts.

Nothing is otherwise perceived, whether it remains or it goes.What is the difference between
this [world of causation] and a creation of magic which the stupid consider to be reality?

Whatever is fabricated by illusion, and whatever is fabricated by causes,where does it come
from? and where does it go? Thus reflect!

Whatever is seen because of the proximity of something else, that is unreal.When it is as artificial
as a reflection, how is it real?

When something is existent, what use is a cause?Likewise, when it is nonexistent, what use is
a cause?

Even thousands of millions of aeons can cause no change in nonbeing.How can anything in that
state exist? Or how can that which is nonbeing come to a state of being?

If being does not exist in the time of nonbeing, when will it become being?Indeed, that nonbeing
will not disappear as long as being is in a state of not being born.

And when nonbeing has not disappeared, there is no possible opportunity for being.And being
does not go into a state of nonbeing, a state of adherence to two natures.

Thus there is never either cessation or existence;the universe neither comes to be nor halts
in being.

Life’s courses, if thou considerest them, are like dreams and as the plantain’s branches;in
reality there is no distinction between those that are at rest and those that are not at rest.

Since then the forms of being are empty, what can be gained, and what lost?who can be honoured
or despised, and by whom?

Whence should come joy or sorrow? What is sweet, what bitter?What is desire, and where shall
this desire in verity be sought?

If thou considerest the world of living things, who shall die therein?who shall be born, who
is born? who is a kinsman and who a friend, and to whom.

Would that my fellow-creatures should understand that all is as the void!They are angered and
delighted by their matters of strife and rejoicing;

with grief and labour, with despair, with rending and stabbing one another,they wearily pass
their days in sin as they seek their own pleasure;

they die and fall into hells of long and bitter anguish;they return again and again to happy
births after births and grow wonted to joy.

In existence are many precipices, and yet they are endowed with unreality.There is mutual cessation,
and yet there can be nothing endowed with reality.

In life are oceans of sorrow, fierce and boundless beyond compare, a scant measure of power,
a brief term of years;

our years are spent in vain strivings for existence and health, in hunger, faintness, and labour,
in sleep, in vexation, in fruitless commerce with fools,

