If the body finds itself partially in all [parts],the parts find themselves in parts, and so
where does the body itself abide?

If the body is everywhere completely in every part,then there must exist as many bodies as there
are parts.

The body is neither within nor without. How is the body in its parts?How is it outside its parts?
How indeed does it exist?

The body does not exist, but because of delusion there is a body-idea in its parts:because of
a kind of fabrication, like imagining a man in a stump.

As long as there is a complete collection of causes, the body is taken to be a man.Likewise,
as long as it is in its members, the body is seen there.

In the same way there can be no foot, because that is a mass of toes.The limb is likewise a
collection of limbs, separated according to their parts.

The parts also are split into atoms. The atom also is in six sections.The six sections are empty
space without parts. Consequently there is no atom.

When the form is like dream, then who will deliberately fall in love with it?And since there
is no body, then what is a woman? And what is a man?

If sorrow really does exist, why does it not oppress the joyful?If happiness is dainty food,
why does it not please those involved in present grief?

If happiness is not experienced, because it is surpassed by something more powerful,what kind
of a sensation is it when the essence is not experienced?

If sorrow is a subtle state which is destroyed by that which is gross,is it not possible that
the other state is a degree of satisfaction? It follows that satisfaction is also a subtle
state.

If sorrow does not arise in the presence of a contrary cause,then what is called “sensation”
has arisen only because of adherence to a fiction.

This examination has for this very reason been its antidote.The food of the Yogīs is that contemplation
which has arisen in the field of imagination.

If there is an interval between the sense and its object, how is there a contact between them?If
there is no interval, they are a unity; and how then is there a contact?

There is no entering into an atom by an atom; it is equal [to the other atom] and without free
space.Without entering there is no mingling, there is no contact.

How can contact really arise from that which is without parts?And if that without parts has
been seen in contact, let it be indicated.

Contact cannot be made without consciousness, which is formless,nor with an aggregate [of parts],
because of its unreality, as previously demonstrated.

If this contact is not in existence, how is it the origin of sensation?For the sake of what
is this effort? Of what is the binding and why should it be?

Since there is not seen a knower nor any kind of sensation,O thirst! beholding this situation,
why are you not split asunder?

Sensation is seen and it is touched, but by thought [only], which itself is like the sleep of
māyā.Because of its very nature, due to that thought, sensation is not seen.

