The Lord is not space, because it is without activity. He is not ātman, as already refuted.If
he is unknowable, then as a creator he is also unknowable. What can be said of him?

And what does he desire to create? If the ātman, is it not eternal?The earth, and so forth?
It is self-existent. A deity? The same. Knowledge? Without beginning: It proceeds from the
knowable.

Likewise, happiness and sorrow are from action. Tell what is made by him?For if there is no
beginning of causation how can there be a beginning of effect?

Why does he not always act? For he is not dependent upon another,because there is nothing which
is not made by him. Why is he dependent upon it?

If he is dependent upon the totality of things, then the Lord is not its cause.The Lord is not
able to act when the totality is complete; and yet he cannot act when it is nonexistent.

If the Lord acts without desire it follows that he is dependent.If he has desire he is likewise
dependent upon that desire. When he acts, where is the quality of Lordliness?

Those who say that atoms are eternal already have been refuted.The Sāṃkhyas seek primary matter
as the eternal cause of the world.

They teach that primary matter is the equilibrium of the natural qualities, thought to be light,
heat, and darkness.The world is said to exist because of their equilibrium.

That which by its own nature is threefold is not a unity. Because of this, such unity does not
exist.Even the guṇas are not perceived, since they are each threefold.

Since the guṇas do not exist, the existence of sound and so forth, is very remote.It is an impossibility
that pleasure, and so forth, is to be found in an unconscious object such as
clothing.

If [it is argued] forms are the cause of things, the existence of things certainly has been
refuted.Moreover, your cause is pleasure; it follows that it is not clothing and the like.

But if pleasure is [derived from such things as] clothing then pleasure is nonexistent when
clothing is nonexistent.Things of pleasure are never obtained eternally by anyone.

If pleasure is always in the developed state [of the guṇas] why is there no perception of it?If
it changes to the subtle state, how can it be both gross and subtle?

Having abandoned the gross, it becomes subtle. Whether gross or subtle, it is impermanent.Why
do you not desire the impermanence of all that exists?

If the gross is not different from pleasure, it is clear that pleasure is impermanent.If it
is thought that nothing can arise from nonexistence, because it is nonexistent,

still you admit reluctantly the arising of that which is manifest, but non-existent.If the effect
is contained in the cause, then the one who eats, consumes excrement.

Also, for the price of the garment, one has bought the seed of the cotton-tree, without wearing
it.If because of delusion the world does not see it, your wise man likewise stands in
the same position.

If the faculty of knowing belongs to the world, why does it not see?Manifest appearance is nonexistent,
but it is this which constitutes the world’s criterion of proof.

Yet if this criterion of proof is not criterion of proof, then what is understood as false.It
follows, in fact, that the Emptiness of creatures does not arise.

If it is assumed that existence is intangible, then non-existence cannot be conceived.If follows
that if whatever exists is false, then nonexistence is certainly false.

