But if [it is argued] release is by the teaching of the Four Noble Truths, what good is teaching
of the Void?Because, following the Scripture, there is no Enlightenment except by this
path.

But if [it is argued] the Mahāyāna is unproven. How is your own Scripture proven?It is proven
because of both of us. It is not proven without you.

Whatever reasons make them respected, apply these to the Mahāyāna.If the true of that which
is valid to both of us depends upon anyone else, then the Vedas, and the like, are true.

If it is thought that there is contention within the Mahāyāna, abandon your own Scripturebecause
of the contention of your own sectarians with themselves and with others and with other
Scriptures.

The root of religion is the life of the monk; and for the thought which depends upon props,Nirvāna
is as difficult as the life of the monk is difficult.

If release is the result of the destruction of passion, it should occur immediately thereafter;but
it is seen that those who are in that state still have the ability to act, although
without passion.

There is no grasping if craving is controlled,but who is not distressed by this craving which
is like confusion?

The cause of craving is feeling, yet they [of the Hīnayāna] are seen to have feeling.The thought
which has an object must be attached to something or other.

Without the Void the imprisoned thought is reborn again,even after attainment of the stage of
unconsciousness. Therefore one should cultivate the Void.

Whatever has been spoken in a sūtra, let that become manifest. If it has been hidden, it should
be spoken.Nothing is known which is equal in importance to the honoured sūtras of the
Mahāyāna.

If the wicked is made wholesome by having understood a single thought,how can it be denied that
a single sūtra is the equal of everything taught by the Conqueror?

And whatever was spoken by those led by Mahākāśyapa is not denied.How can it be done by one
like you, since he has achieved a teaching like that of the Buddha?

One remains in the realm of rebirth [our opponents argue] without achieving release from clinging
and fear,for the sake of the sorrowful, because of confusion. This [they say] is the
fruit of the Void.

But this objection does not touch the doctrine of the Void;therefore, the Void is to be cultivated
without hesitation.

The Void is the opposite of the dark hindrances of passion and of intellect.Why does the one
who desires all knowledge not cultivate it at once?

The cause of fear is whatever thing that is the birth of sorrow.The Void is the soothing of
sorrow, so why should fear arise?

There may be fear from any quarter whatever if I really am anything at all;but if I am nothing
whatever, whose fear will it be?

I am neither teeth, hair, nails, nor bone.Neither am I blood nor mucus nor phlegm nor pus nor
lymph.

Neither am I marrow nor perspiration. Neither am I fat nor viscera.Neither am I the hidden intestines,
nor am I feces or urine.

Neither am I meat nor muscle; nor am I heat or breath;nor am I the openings of the body or the
six perceptions.

