All this equipment the Sage has ordained for the sake of wisdom; so he that seeks to still sorrow
must get him wisdom.

We deem that there are two verities, the Veiled Truth and the Transcendent Reality. The Reality
is beyond the range of the understanding; the understanding is called Veiled Truth.

Consequently, the world is seen to be divided into two parts, that of the Yogī and that of the
vulgar;and perforce the vulgar world is distinguished from the world of the Yogī.

Even Yogīs are distinguished by differences of mental power;but because the purpose of all of
them is the same, the aim of all of them is valid.

Things are seen by the world and they are assumed to be real;it is not realized that they are
only illusion. Thus the quarrel between the Yogī and the worldly.

Even sense perception with its [classical] argument based upon the proof of form and so forth,
is not in accord with the criteria of valid knowledge.This is false, like the argument
that purity and so on, is impurity and so on.

For the sake of his appearance in the world things were taught by the Lord to be momentarily
real.It is not because of the veiled truth if this is contradicted.

There is no corruption because of the veiled truth of the Yogīs, since they distinguish reality
from the world.Otherwise, there would be worldly afflictions for them, as in the case
of unclean women.

On the other hand, how is there any value regarding so-called reality, even concerning the Conqueror,
who is equated to illusion?If a being is the same as illusion, how much less is
it to be born? or to have died?

As long as there is totality of causes, to that very extent, illusion conceals;for how is a
profound continuity of elements really real?

There is no evil [it is argued] in the destruction of a man who is illusion, because of the
absence of thought;but because thought is affected by illusion, sin and merit have arisen.

The encounter of illusion and thought is not due to the power of spells and so forth.Illusion
is of different kinds, and the encounter has a variety of causes.

From what single cause is the power of everything derived?For one in transmigration, release
comes both by means of transcendent truth and by means of veiled truth.

Even the Buddha [it is argued] is thus in transmigration; what good, then, is the course of
Enlightenment!When causes are not cut off, certainly illusion itself is not cut off;

but because of the cutting off of causes, being exists no more as the result of veiled truth.As
soon as there is no moving to and fro [or error], by what means is illusion perceived?

When illusion does not exist for you, then how is it perceived?It is just a fabrication of thought
if it is otherwise than true reality.

When even thought is illusion, then what is seen? and by whom?For it is taught by the Lord of
the Earth that thought does not behold thought.

As the blade of the sword does not cut itself, neither does the mind know itself.If it is thought
that the self is like a lamp which illuminates,

that lamp cannot be illuminated, since it is not covered by darkness.Indeed, that which is dark
is not like a crystal either: Being dark, it does not expect anything else.

