Silly one, what thou claimest as thine is not as clean as a wooden doll; why doest thou cling
to this rotten machine framed in foulness?

Lift in thy imagination this envelope of skin, and with the scalpel of wisdom remove the flesh
from the frame of bones.

Open likewise the bones, and look upon the marrow within them. Then ask thyself what essential
thing is therein.

And now that thou hast made diligent search and found therein nothing essential, say wherefore
thou still clingest to the body.

Thou canst not eat its impurities and entrails, nor drink its blood; what wilt thou do with
the body?

This poor flesh, which thou guardest in order to feed vultures, jackals, and the like, is fitted
only to be a tool for men’s works.

Though thou guardest it thus, pitiless Death will tear away the body and give it to the vultures;
and the what wilt thou do?

To a servant who will not remain, gifts or garments and the like are not given; when it has
eaten, the body will depart, then why waste thy riches upon it?

Pay to it its wage, then set thy thought upon thine own business; for we give not to the hireling
all that he may earn.

Conceive of the body as a ship that travels to and fro, and make it go at thy bidding for creatures
to fulfil their end.

He who is thus master of himself will ever bear a smiling face; he will put away frowns and
be first to greet others, a friend of the world.

He will not noisily and hastily throw down benches or the like nor beat upon a door, but always
will delight in silence.

The crane, the cat, and the thief walk silently and calmly, and accomplish the end that they
desire; thus the holy man will always act.

He will accept with bowed head the words of those who are skilful in exhorting others and do
kindness unsought; he will ever be the disciple of all men.

He will give applause to all kindly words; when he sees one who does righteous works, he will
gladden him with praises.

One should discuss the virtues of others in private and repeat them with satisfaction;but when
one’s own praiseworthy character is mentioned, that should be considered as an appreciation
of virtue in itself.

All achievement is for the sake of satisfaction, but even with money it is hard to grasp.I shall
enjoy satisfaction only insofar as it is derived from the virtues achieved by the hard
work of others.

In this way, no loss occurs to me, and hereafter there is great joy.But if one yielded to hatreds
there would be the unpleasantness of hatreds here and great sorrow hereafter.

One should speak boldly directed sentences for the sake of clarity, which are pleasing to the
mind,gratifying to the hearing, filled with compassion, and of a soft and gentle tone.

With the eye one should look honestly at beings, as if drinking together.Thus, by taking refuge
with them I shall achieve Buddhahood.

