He will watch to see where his mind is moving, so that it may not even for an instant cast off
the yoke of rapt devotion.

Although one is powerless to act for the best when bound by fear, agitation, and so forth,still,
on an occasion of charity, the overlooking of conventional morality is advised.

Whoever, having been enlightened, commences to act, ought to think of nothing else.Insofar as
this can be accomplished it is by means of applying one’s entire being.

This way, everything is well done. Otherwise, both [of the conflicting interests of dāna and
śīla] may not be achieved.And the flaw of non-awareness will attain further development.

My desire is gone, because of destroying manifold chatterings,frequent turnings, all curiosities.

One ought to reject useless scratching, fidgeting, puttering,once having learned the discipline
of the Tathāgatha and having feared it.

If one should desire to move, or desire to speak,his mind is to be examined and suitably composed
with patience.

If one would see his mind disciplined and blunted, then he should not act nor speak.He should
remain like a piece of wood.

If the mind should be arrogant or sarcastic, brutal because of prideful infatuation,scornful
and abusive, crooked and deceiving;

if appearing conceited with one’s self and thus of the utmost contempt; taunting and angry:one
should remain like a piece of wood.

The mind is [important] to me [only] for the sake of wealth, praise, glory; for the sake of
retinue;and, again, for the sake of homage. Therefore, I remain like a stick of wood.

Being devoted to self-interest, my mind is cruelly opposed to the interest of others;but it
is desirous of company, and it likes to talk. Therefore, I remain like a stick of wood.

It is without endurance, without energy, fearful, arrogant,and yet intent upon the welfare of
its own kind. Therefore, I remain like a stick of wood.

When the mind is seen to be troubled, or attempting that which is fruitless,the hero ought always
to restrain it firmly by means of the opposite behaviour.

Resolved, serene, firm, respectful to whatever relates to the master,with shame, with fear,
mild, having as the highest object the satisfaction of others;

unwearied by the contradictory desires of the childish;but instead, full of pity for them, because
this is from the arising of passion;

always submissive to one’s own will or to that of other creatures, in suitable circumstances;like
a magical creation, without an opinion: Thus I bear whatever relates to the mind.

Having remembered the unique moment, obtained after a long time,having remembered again and
again, I make the mind as firm in appearance as Mount Sumeru.

When the body is dragged hither and thither by vultures lusting for meat, why is it powerless
to save itself.

Why dost thou watch over this frame, O my spirit, as if it were thine own? if it is a thing
apart from thee, what canst thou lose thereby?

