He who would keep the rules must diligently guard his thought; the rules cannot be kept by him
who guards not the fickle thought.

Untamed elephants in their madness do not such harm here as the thought works in Avīchī and
the rest of the hells, a young elephant ranging free.

But if the young elephant of thought be entirely bound by the rope of remembrance, all peril
departs, and perfect happiness comes.

Tigers, lions, elephants, bears, snakes, all foes, all the warders of the hells, witches and
devils –

all of them are bound, if only thought be bound; all are subdued if only thought be subdued.

The Speaker of the Truth has said that from thought alone come all our countless terrors and
griefs.

Who has diligently forged the swords of hell, or its pavement of red-hot iron, and whence were
born its sirens?

All this has sprung from the sinful thought, as the Saint’s song tells; thus in the threefold
world there is no foe to fear save the thought.

If the Perfect Charity frees the world from poverty, how could the Saviours of old have had
it, since the world is still poor?

The Perfect Charity is declared to be the thought of surrendering to all beings our whole possessions
and likewise the merit thereof; thus it is but a thought.

Where can fishes and other creatures be brought into safety, that I may not slay them? When
the thought to do them no hurt is conceived, that is deemed the Perfect Conduct.

How many can I slay of the wicked, who are measureless as space? But when the thought of wrath
is slain, all my foes are slain.

Whence can be found leather enough to cover the whole earth? But with a single leather shoe
the whole ground is covered.

In like manner the forces without me I cannot control; but I will control the thought within
me, and what need have I for control of the rest?

Though aided by voice and body, indolence can never win for its prize an estate such as that
of Brahmā, which falls to the lot of the vigorous unaided thought.

The prayers and mortifications of a heedless and feeble man, however long he labour, are all
in vain, says the Omniscient.

To overcome sorrow and win happiness men wander in vain, for they have not sanctified their
thought, the mysterious essence of holiness.

Then I must keep my thought well governed and well guarded; what need is there of any vows save
the vow to guard the thought?

As one standing in the midst of a crowd carefully protects a wound,so one standing in the midst
of evil persons always should protect the mind as an open wound.

Afraid of experiencing pain in a wound, I carefully protect that wound.Afraid of being caught
between the crushing mountains of hell, why should I not protect the mind as if it were
a wound?

