What of an ascetic living a blameless way of life,even among rogues or even in the midst of
wanton women? He does not interrupt his constancy.

Let my possessions be lost – love, respect, the life of the body.Let any other happiness be
lost to me, but never [mastery of] the mind.

For those desiring to protect the mind, I fold my hands in prayer:With all zeal protect both
mindfulness and total awareness.

As a man troubled by disease is not capable of any action,so likewise with regard to these virtues,
the troubled mind is incapable of any action.

When practiced by the mind without total awareness,instruction and reflection escape from mindfulness
like water from a leaking jar.

Many who have been instructed, who are faithful and intent upon zeal,become sinful and impure
because of a lack of awareness.

The thief Heedlessness, waiting to escape the eye of remembrance, robs men of the righteousness
they have gathered, and they come to an evil lot.

The Passions, a band of robbers, seek a lodging, and when they have found it they rob us and
destroy our good estate of life.

Then let remembrance never withdraw from the portal of the spirit; and if it departs, let it
be brought back by remembering the anguish of hell.

Remembrance grows easily in happy obedient souls from the reverence raised by their teachers’
lore and from dwelling with their masters.

“The Enlightened and their Sons keep unfailing watch in every place. Everything is before them,
I stand in their presence.”

Pondering this thought, a man will be possessed by modesty, obedience, and reverence, and the
remembrance of the Enlightened will thus be always with him.

When remembrance stands on guard at the portal of the spirit, watchfulness comes, and nevermore
departs.

The thought thus must be kept ever under watch; I must always be as if without carnal sense,
like a thing of wood.

The eyes must never glance around without object; their gaze should always be ownward, as if
in meditation.

But sometimes, to rest his gaze, one may look around him, he sees [strangers] as mere phantoms,
but will turn his eyes upon them to bid them welcome.

On the road, and other such places, he will look from time to time to the four quarters of space,
to take note of danger; he will rest and turn round to look about him.

He will go forward or backward with heed, and in all conditions do what he has to do with understanding.

In every act that he undertakes he will consider the due posture of his body, and from time
to time will look to see how it is.

He will watch with great heed the wild elephant of his thought, so that it remain bound to the
stout stake of holy meditation and become not loosed.

