Whether one experiences constancy and devotion, or hostility—whether one experiences happiness
or sorrow—great good may ensue.

One should be clever, endowed with energy, and always self-reliant.There is to be no dependence
upon anyone in any act.

The Perfections, Charity, and the rest, are of an ascending order of excellence; he will not
forsake a more excellent for another, save in respect of the dyke of virtue.

Thus minded, he will be always active for the welfare of others; even a forbidden deed is permitted
to him in his kindliness, if he foresees a good result.

He will give of his alms to the fallen, the masterless, and the religious, and eat himself but
a moderate portion; he will surrender everything but his three robes.

He will not for slight purpose afflict his body, which is in the service of the Good Law; for
thus it will speedily fulfil the desires of living beings.

And therefore he will not cast away his life for one whose spirit of mercy is impure, but only
for one whose spirit is like his own; and thus naught is lost.

One should not speak the doctrine to a person without dignity, or who [thinks himself] self-sufficient,
or who wears a turban;and not to an [arrogant] person with an umbrella, a rod,
or a sword, or whose head is covered.

The profound and exalted should not be spoken to the vulgar, nor to women without a man present.One
should bring equal respect to the inferior and the superior Dharma [Hīnayāna and Mahāyāna];

but one ought not to yoke to the inferior Dharma that which is appropriate to the superior Dharma;and
having forsaken good conduct, one ought not to deceive with scriptures and spells.

The display of a toothpick, the emission of snot, is not approved;and, also, urine and the like
is forbidden in usable water and on good earth.

One ought not to eat with the mouth full, with noise, or with the mouth open.The foot ought
not to be pendant, nor should one fold the arms together.

One ought not to take a journey lying down or sitting with another’s woman.Having seen and investigated
all that is disapproved by the world, he should avoid it.

One ought not to use a finger to point.Rather—respectfully—he ought to use his full right hand
even if he should point out a road.

One ought not to make noise, throwing his arms about;but when one is a trifle hurried a snap
of the fingers may be made. Otherwise one might be uncontrolled.

One ought to lie on a couch like the Lord in Nirvāṇa,facing the proper direction, thoughtful,
and quick to arise according to command.

The rule of conduct taught by the Bodhisattvas is immeasurable;but one should always practice
that conduct which leads to the purification of the mind.

Three times by night and by day one should utilize the three “heaps of merit”.By means of this,
and by taking refuge in the Conquerors and in the Thought of Enlightenment, the rest of
one’s faults are quieted.

Whatever circumstances one may experience, either caused by himself or by others,he zealously
should practice whatever rules apply just then.

There is nothing, once they accept the discipline, which is not to be understood by the sons
of the Conqueror.There is nothing which exists which is without merit to such a one.

