How dare I show pride, instead of a slave’s humbleness, towards those masters for whose sake
my Masters are heedless of their own lives?

When they are happy, the Saints are rejoiced, and wroth when they are distressed; in their gladness
is the gladness of all the Saints; when they are wronged, wrong is done to the Saints.

As one whose body is entirely in flame finds no comfort in any things of desire, so when creatures
are distressed these beings of mercy have no way to find pleasure.

Forasmuch then as I have done hurt to all these most compassionate beings by doing hurt to living
things, I confess now my sin; may the Saints pardon me for the wrong that I have done
to them!

To win the grace of the Blessed Ones to-day I make myself utterly the slave of the world. Let
the crowds of living beings set their feet upon my head or smite me, and the Lord of the
World be glad!

Beyond all doubt these Merciful Ones have made the whole universe their own; truly it is our
Lords who show themselves in the form of creatures, and dare we despise them?

It is this that moves the Blessed to grace, this that wins my true end, this that wipes away
the misery of the world; then be this my vow!

A single henchman of the king handles a crowd rudely; and the throng, looking on from afar,
dares not show sign of passion;

for he is not alone, the king’s power is his strength. And likewise thou mayst not dishonour
him who wrongs thee because he is weak;

for the warders of hell and the Merciful Ones are his strength. Then let us seek the favour
of creatures, as a servant the favour of a wrathful king.

Can a king in his anger bring upon us the anguish of hell, which we shall bear for making creatures
sorrowful?

Can a king in his pleasure bestow aught equal to Enlightenment, which we shall bear for making
creatures happy?

But beside the destined Enlightenment that springs from kindness to creatures, seest thou not
that herein lie fortune, glory, comfort?

Favour, health, joy, long life, and abounding delight of empire fall to the lot of the patient
man in the course of his lives.

Chapter VI: The Perfect Long-suffering

