Say I am angered not against the instrument—the stick or whatso it may be—but against him who
moves it. But he is moved by hatred; it is better then for me to hate hatred.

I myself in former times have wrought the same suffering for other creatures; then I deserve
this for having done hurt to living beings.

The cause of my suffering is twofold—my enemy’s sword and my body. He has taken the sword, I
the body; with which shall I be angry?

What I have got is an ulcer in the shape of a body, unable to bear the touch; and thus tortured
in the blindness of desire, with what shall I be wroth?

I seek not suffering, yet in my folly seek the cause of suffering; since my pain comes from
my own offence, why shall I be wroth with another?

The forest whose leaves are swords, the birds of hell, spring from my own works; with whom then
shall I be wroth?

They who do me hurt are moved thereto by my works, and thence they fall into hell; surely it
is I that undo them!

Thanks to them, my guilt through much patience fades away; thanks to me, they go to the long
agonies of hell.

It is I who do them hurt, they who do me kindness; base-spirited fellow, wherefore this absurd
anger?

If I fall not into hell, it will be by the merit of my spirit; what matter is it to them that
I save myself?

If I should return them evil for evil, they would not be saved thereby; my progress would be
wrecked; and these poor creatures would be lost.

In no place and by naught can the mind be destroyed, for it is unembodied; but from imaginations
clinging to the body it suffers with the body’s hurt.

Discomfiture, rude speech, dishonour, all these things harm not the body; then why art thou
wroth, O my spirit?

Can the ill-will of others towards me touch me in this life or in births to come, that I should
mislike it?

Haply I may mislike it because it hinders me from gaining alms; but then the alms that I get
will vanish here, my guilt will stay with me for ever.

Better for me to die this same day than to live long in sin, for however long I stay, the same
death-agony awaits me.

One man in dreams enjoys a hundred years of bliss, and awakes; another is happy for an hour,
and awakes;

surely the pleasure of both, when they wake, is alike ended. And so it is at the time of death
with the long-lived and the short-lived.

Though I may get many gifts, and long enjoy my pleasures, I shall depart empty-handed and naked,
as if stripped by robbers.

“By my gains I may live to wipe out my sin and do righteousness”—ay, but he who is angry for
the sake of gain wipes out his righteousness and does sin.

