Forsooth thou wouldst have all beings become Buddhas, and worthy of the three worlds’ worship;
then why art thou vexed to see their brief honours?

He who nurtures them that thou shouldst nurture gives to thee; yet when thou findest one that
feeds thy household, thou art wroth, not glad!

He that desires the enlightenment of living beings desires all good for them; but whence can
one have the Thought of Enlightenment who is angered at another’s good fortune?

If the gift comes not to thy neighbour, it stays in the house of the offerer; in no wise does
it fall to thee; what matter to thee whether it be given or no?

Shall he check his righteousness, the kindness of others, or his own worth? shall he not take
what is given? say, art thou not angered in every case?

Not only wilt thou not grieve for thine own sins, but thou darest to be jealous of the righteous.

If sorrow could befall thine enemy at thy pleasure, what would come of it? Thy mere ill-will
cannot bring forth an issue without a cause;

but if it were accomplished by thy wish, what happiness wouldst thou have in his grief? The
issue then would be more harmful to thee than aught else.

This is in sooth a deadly hook in the hands of the fisher Passion; the wardens of hell will
take thee thence in purchase and seethe thee in their kitchens.

Praise, glory, and honours make not for righteousness or long life, or for strength, or health,
or pleasure of the body.

But such will be the end sought by a wise man knowing his advantage; and he who desires mirth
of spirit may give himself to drink, gambling, and the like.

For glory men waste their substance, ay, even their lives. But will syllables feed them? and
when they are dead, who has pleasure of it?

As a child wails bitterly when its house of sand is broken down, so I deem my own spirit will
be when praise and glory vanish.

Praise is but sound, and being itself without thought, cannot praise me. “Nay, I am glad, forsooth,
because my neighbour is pleased with me.”

But what is it to me whether my neighbour is pleased with me or with another? the joy is his;
not the smallest share of it is mine.

If happiness springs from the joy of others, then I should have it in every event; so why am
I not glad when men rejoice to honour another?

Then gladness arises within me only because I am praised; and thus, being foreign to myself,
it is an utter child’s play.

These praises and honours destroy my welfare and horror of the flesh; they arouse envy of the
worthy and anger at their fortune.

Then they who rise against me to crush my glory and honour are in truth working to save me from
falling into hell.

If I seek deliverance, gains and honours are a fetter that befit me not; how can I hate them
that release me from this bond?

