By the blessing of the Enlightened, as it were, they become a door barring my way into sorrow;
how can I hate them?

“But he hinders me from righteous works”—nay, it is not well to be angry for this. There is
no work of mortification equal to long-suffering, and surely this is an occasion for it.

If by my sin here I show not patience towards him, it is I who hinder myself from doing righteous
when the occasion for it has come.

If one thing exists not without another, and exists when the other is present, the latter is
the cause of the former: how can it be called a hindrance to it?

The beggar who comes at the due hour makes no hindrance to the almsgiving; and if a monk comes
who can administer the vows, it is not called a hindrance to our taking of the vows.

We find many beggars in the world, but few who will do us hurt; for if I do no wrong, no man
will wrong me.

Then an enemy is like a treasure found in my house, won without labour of mine; I must cherish
him, for he is a helper in the way to Enlightenment.

Thus this fruit of my patience is won by me and by him together; to him must be given the first
share, for he is the cause of my patience.

“But my enemy seeks not to prosper my patience, and therefore he is not worthy of honour”—nay,
why then do we honour the Good Law, the unconscious cause of blessing?

“Nay, his purpose is to do me hurt”—but if an enemy is therefore not honoured, how can I otherwise
show patience towards him, as though he were intent, like a physician, on my welfare?

It is by reason of his evil design that my patience is born; therefore he is the cause of patience,
and as worthy of honour from the as the Good Law.

Therefore the Saint has told of the Domain of Creatures and the Domain of Conquerors; for by
seeking the favour of creatures and Conquerors many have risen to supreme fortune.

Since with both creatures and Conquerors is the same gift of the qualities of the Enlightened,
how may we deal partially and refuse to creatures the reverence shown to Conquerors?

The greatness of the purpose lies not in itself, but in its works; hence creatures have a like
greatness, and therein they are like [to the Enlightened].

The greatness of creatures is that he who has the spirit of kindliness towards them wins worship;
the greatness of the Enlightened is that merit is won by love toward them.

Thus creatures are like to the Conquerors by giving in part the dower of the qualities of the
Enlightened, albeit none of them are peer to the Enlightened, who are oceans of virtues,
infinite of parts;

and if even one atom-small virtue from these sole stores of the essence of the virtues be found
in any creature, the whole threefold world is not enough for his worship.

In creatures is found a little power, but that most noble, for bringing forth the qualities
of the Enlightened; according to that little power should creatures be honoured.

Moreover, what perfect reparation can be made to these Kinsmen without guile, these doers of
immeasurable kindness, save the service of creatures?

They tear their own bodies, they go down into the hell Avīchī, all for the welfare of others;
then even to them who most sorely wrong us we must do all manner of good.

