All the righteousness, the charity, the worship of the Blessed, that have been wrought in thousands
of aeons, are destroyed by ill-will.

There is no guilt equal to hatred, no mortification equal to long-suffering; and therefore one
should diligently practice patience in diverse ways.

While the arrow of hate is in the heart, none can have a peaceful mind in equipoise, or feel
the joy of kindliness, none can win sleep or calm.

They whom a master cursed with an evil spirit honours with wealth and favours, and who dwell
under his protection, seek nevertheless to destroy him.

Even his friends are in terror of him. His gifts win for him no service. In short, there is
no way for a passionate man to find happiness.

He who stoutly fights against wrath, the enemy that brings these and other sorrows, wins joy
in this world and beyond.

Nourished by discontent, hatred grows swollen and destroys me; and discontent springs from doing
unpleasing works or from the baffling of desire.

Then I will cut off the nourishment of my enemy, for this foeman’s sole purpose is to slay me.

My cheerfulness shall not be disturbed, even by the most untoward events; discontent works no
good, and only destroys merit.

What profits discontent if there is a remedy; and what profits it if there is none?

We shrink from sorrow, defeat, rude speech, and dishonour for ourselves and our friends, and
from the opposite of these for our enemy.

Happiness is hard to win, pain comes readily; there is no escape from life save by pain; then
be firm, O my spirit!

The Karṇāṭas, the “little children of Durgā,” suffer the agonies of burning and maiming in a
vain hope of salvation; why then shall I be faint-hearted?

There is nothing which practice cannot make easy; so by practice in slight sufferings we learn
to bear great pains.

Flies, stinging creatures, gnats, hunger, thirst, and other like pains, fierce itch and other
like miseries—lookest thou upon these as profitless?

Before cold, heat, rain, wind, travel, sickness, bondage, and blows be not tender and delicate,
else thy anguish will increase.

Some there are who at the sight of their own blood become exceedingly valorous, and some at
sight of others’ blood fall into faintness.

This comes about through firmness and feebleness of spirit; then he who is unconquerable by
pain will overcome suffering.

Even in pain the wise man will not let the calm of his spirit be disturbed; for he is at war
with the Passions, and in war suffering abounds.

They who overcome their foes by presenting their bosoms to the enemy’s blows are “victors,”
“heroes”; the rest are “slayers of the slain.”

