Another virtue of suffering is that from loathing of the flesh pride is brought low, and there
arise pity for the creatures wandering through births, fear of sin, and love for the Conqueror.

I have no anger against the fall and the rest of my humours, although they cause great suffering,
then can one be wroth against thinking beings, who likewise are deranged by outer forces?

As a bodily pain arises unwilled [by the humours], so too wrath perforce arises unwilled [in
the offender].

A man does not become angry of his free will and with purpose of anger; nor does wrath resolve
of itself to break forth before it breaks forth.

All offences, all the various sins, spring of necessity from outer forces; none are self-guided.

The total of outer forces has no consciousness that it engenders an effect, and the effect has
no consciousness that it is engendered.

The “Primal Matter” and “Soul” of which forsooth men talk are imaginations. They do not come
into being with consciousness of doing so.

Before coming into being they do not exist; and who can then desire to come into being? If the
“soul” is active upon its objects, it will not cease thence;

and if it is constant, impassive, and like the ether, it is manifestly inactive; for though
it be joined to outer forces, how can a changeless thing act?

What part of the action is done by a thing which at the time of action of the same as before
it? If “its own action” is the bond [between soul and object], what is the ground of this?

Thus everything depends of a cause, and this cause likewise is not independent; in no wise,
then, can wrath be felt against beings mechanical as phantoms.

“Then there can be no restraint; what is to be arrested, and who shall arrest it?” Not so; for
since all is really the work of outer forces, hence we deem that sorrow may have an end.

So when we see a foe, or even a friend, doing unrighteously, let us remember that such are the
outer forces moving him, and remain in peace.

If all mortals could win their ends at their own pleasure, none would suffer vexation; for none
desire it.

In heedlessness, wrath, or lust for women and other things beyond their reach, men bring themselves
into distress from thorns, lack of food, and the like.

Some destroy themselves by hanging, springing down from a height, taking poison or unwholesome
measure of food, or doing unrighteousness.

Since under the sway of the passions they harm thus their own persons, which they love, how
can they spare the bodies of others?

Maddened by passions, striving for their own destruction, there can be only pity for them; how
should we be angered?

If it is the nature of fools to hurt their fellows, it is as wrong for me to feel anger against
them as it is to be wroth with the fire which naturally burns me;

and if again it is a passing frailty, and creatures are upright of nature, then it is as wrong
to be angered against them as against the air when smoke fills it.

