If that for which I live is lost, what profits life itself which is spent wholly in ungodliness?

“I hate him who speaks to my blame, for he brings creatures to destruction”—then why art thou
not angry against him who rails at others?

Thou bearest with the unkindly when their unkindness touches others, and bearest not with the
caviller who touches on the growth of thy vices!

It is unfit for me to hate them that destroy or revile images, sanctuaries, or the Good Law;
for the Enlightened and their company thereby take no hurt.

If men wrong thy dear ones, masters, brothers, and the rest, know as before that outer forces
are working, and restrain thy wrath.

Whether it be wrought by a thing with or without thought, suffering is assured to living beings;
it is found in whatever has thought; then bear with it.

Some in their blindness do wrong, others in their blindness are wroth with them; whom of these
may we call blameless, or whom guilty?

Why hast thou of old done so that thou art thus afflicted now by others? All are under the sway
of their own works; who am I to undo this?

Knowing this, I will strive to do righteousness, so that all may be full of love for one another.

When a house is burning, and the fire may fall upon the next house and seize upon the straw
and like stuff within it, we carry this stuff away from it;

and in like manner must we straightway cast out the things by touch whereof the spirit is inflamed
with the fire of wrath, for fear lest the substance of our merit be consumed.

If a man doomed to death be released with one hand cut off, is it not well for him? and if one
through human tribulations escapes hell, is it not also well for him?

If one cannot bear the small suffering of the moment, then why does he not put away the wrath
that will bring upon him the agonies of hell?

By reason of wrath I have been thus afflicted in hell thousands of times, and done no service
to myself or to others.

My present tribulation is not so heavy, and will be very gainfull; let me be glad of a suffering
that redeems the world from its suffering.

If some find delight in praising one of high worth, why, O my spirit, dost thou not rejoice
likewise in praising him?

Such joy will bring thee no blame; it will be a fountain of happiness; it is not forbidden by
men of worth; it is the noblest way to win over thy fellows.

If thou art not pleased because he [who praises] is glad, then thou wouldst forbid such things
as payment for service, and seen and unseen rewards alike perish.

Thou art willing for thy neighbour to be glad when he praises thy worth; but thou art loth to
be thyself glad when another’s worth is praised.

Thou hast framed the Thought of Enlightenment in desire to make all creatures happy; then why
now art thou wroth with creatures who of themselves find happiness?

