“Continuity” and “aggregate” are like group or an army or such: They are false.There is no “he”
of whom there is sorrow; and because of this, whose will be this “his”?

All sorrows, without distinction, are ownerless;and because of misery they are to be prevented.
Why then is restriction made?

Why is sorrow to be prevented?—all are without disagreement [on this point].And if it is to
be prevented, then [let it be done] completely. Not just in myself. Everywhere!

If great sorrow is derived from compassion, why allow it to arise against one’s will?After considering
the sorrow of the world, how great is the sorrow of the compassionate!

If the sorrow of the many vanishes by the sorrow of the one,then that sorrow ought to arise
from pity of one’s self and of others.

In this way his own sorrow was not destroyed by Supuṣpacandra at the sacrifice of the sorrows
of many,although he knew the way of the King.

Consequently [the Bodhisattvas, the compassionate], having transformed their mentalities, delighting
in the tranquilizing of another’s sorrow,plunge into the Avīcī hell like wild geese
into a cluster of lotus.

When beings are delivered it is for them an ocean of joy which overwhelms all:What good is the
insipid deliverance [of an Arhat of a Pratyekabuddha]?

After having done something for the benefit of others, let there be neither excitement nor pride
nor desire for subsequent merit:Let there be only thirst for the other’s benefit.

Then, as I would guard myself from evil repute, so I will frame a spirit of helpfulness and
tenderness towards others.”

By constant use the idea of an “I” attaches itself to foreign drops of seed and blood, although
the thing exists not.

Then why should I not conceive my fellow’s body as my own self? That my body is foreign to me
is not hard to see.

I will think of myself as a sinner, of others as oceans of virtue; I will cease to live as self,
and will take as my self my fellow-creatures.

We love our hands and other limbs, as members of the body; then why not love other living beings,
as members of the universe?

By constant use man comes to imagine that his body, which has no self-being, is a “self”; why
then should he not conceive his “self” to lie in his fellows also?

Thus in doing service to others pride, admiration, and desire of reward find no place, for thereby
we satisfy the wants of our own self.

Then, as thou wouldst guard thyself against suffering and sorrow, so exercise the spirit of
helpfulness and tenderness towards the world.

Thus the Lord Avalokita has given his own nameto protect a man from even the fear of being timid
in the Assembly.

One should not turn from difficulties because of regard for his reputation.One is without rest,
protecting that reputation.

Whoever wishes to quickly rescue himself and another should practice the supreme mystery:the
exchanging of himself and the other.

