I may be cleft, pierced, burnt, split open many and many a time for countless millions of aeons,
and never win the Enlightenment.

But this pain that wins me the Enlightenment is of a brief term; it is like the pain of cutting
out a buried arrow to heal its smart.

All physicians restore health by painful courses; then to undo much suffering let us bear a
little.

But even this fitting course the Great Physician has not enjoined upon us; he heals them that
are grievously sick by tender treatment.

At first our Lord ordains gifts only of herbs and the like, and then in due course brings men
at last to surrender even their own flesh.

When there comes to man the spirit that looks upon his flesh as no more than herbs, what hardship
is it for him to surrender his flesh and bone?

He is not hurt, for he has cast off sin, nor sad, for knowledge is his; for distress comes in
the mind from false imaginations, and in the body from sin.

The body is made happy by righteous works, the spirit by knowledge; what can vex the compassionate
one who remains in embodied life only for the welfare of others?

Annulling his former sins, amassing oceans of righteousness, by the power of his Thought of
Enlightenment he travels more swiftly than the Disciples.

Having thus in the Thought of Enlightenment a chariot that removes all vexation and weariness,
travelling from happiness to happiness, who that is wise will despair?

To accomplish the welfare of his fellow-creatures he has an Army, the troops of which are Love
of Right, Constancy, Joy, and Abandonment. The Love of Right he will frame from the fear
of suffering and from pondering upon merits.

when he has uprooted his foes, he will strive for increase of vigour by means of his armies,
which are the love of right, pride, joy, abandonment, devoted heed, and self-submission.

Countless are the faults in myself and my fellows that I shall have to destroy, and hundreds
of thousands of aeons must pass ere even one of these fade away.

But I find not in myself the least morsel of vigour to set myself to undo these faults; I am
doomed to boundless anguish, and why does my bosom not burst?

Many are the virtues in myself and my fellows that must be gained, and hundreds of thousands
of aeons will scarce be enough for the practice of even one of them.

But I have never practised the least morsel of virtue; to no purpose has been spent the birth
so hardly and marvellously won.

The joy of the great festivals in worship of the Lord has not been mine; I have done no honour
to the Law, nor fulfilled the desire of the poor;

I have not given security to them that are in fear, nor happiness to the afflicted; I have been
only a vexation of my mother’s womb, to work sorrow.

Because of old I departed from the love of right, I am not in this evil plight; who would forsake
the love of right?

This love the Saint has proclaimed to be the root of all righteous works; and its root is the
constant meditation upon the fruit that grows from deeds.

