He is honoured: I am not. I am not rich like him.He is praised: I am blamed. I am sorrowful:
He is the happy one.

I am engaged in labours, while he remains at ease.He is indeed great in the world: I am indeed
base and without virtues.

What can be done by one without virtues? Yet everyone may not be endowed with virtues.There
are those to whom I am base: There are those to whom I am superior.

If my conduct or my teaching has fallen into ruin, it is because of the power of passion, not
because of my own will.I am to be cured, if it is possible; I have surely accepted the pain.

If I cannot be cured by this [“self”], why does he despise me?What to me are these virtues?
Because of such virtues he is endowed with “self.”

Has he only compassion for those men who dwell in the mouths of the beasts of prey in an evil
place?In pride of virtue he strives to surpass the distant sages.

Having seen one equal to himself, he must strive for the increase of his own superiority.By
quarrelling he is to obtain profit and honour for himself.

May my virtues become manifest everywhere in the world:But whatever virtues he may have, let
them not be heard anywhere.

Let my faults be hidden that there may be honour to me, but let there be none for him.Benefits
have now been obtained by me: I am honoured, but he is not.

We behold you fully—although it is late—the one who is ill-treated,laughed at by every man,
reviled: Thus was he bent down.

Indeed, what a comparison between that wretched one and myself!What kind of learning has he?
What wisdom? beauty? family? wealth?

Having heard in this way about my virtue, my honours having been recited everywhere,my hair
has become stiff with the thrill of pleasure: I enjoy the uttermost happiness.

If there is any advantage which he may have, it is to be forcibly seized by us.We will give
him only maintenance if he will serve us.

He is to be shaken from his happiness. He is forever to be yoked to our anguish.A hundred times,
because of him, we all [have endured] that state of anguish which is Saṃsāra.

You have passed through immeasurable aeons searching for your own well-being,and you have gained
only sorrow as the result of this gigantic effort.

Turn, then, according to my entreaty, without hesitation!You shall see the results at a later
time, because the word of the Buddha is true.

If you previously had made this to be your object—a striving for the fulfilment of a Buddha—liberation
would have occurred, and this condition of life would not have occurred.

Therefore, as you located the Ego-maker in drops of sperm and of blood,in things belonging to
another, so now let it be found in others.

Make thyself a spy for the service of others, and whatsoever thou seest in thy body’s work that
is good for thy fellows, perform it so that it may be conveyed to them.

Be thou jealous of thine own self when thou seest that it is at ease and thy fellow in distress,
that it is in high estate and he is brought low, that it is at rest and he is at labour.

