When thus vigour has been nurtured, it is well to fix the thought in concentred effort; the
man of wandering mind lies between the fangs of the Passions.

It cannot wander if body and thought be in solitude; so it is well to forsake the world and
put away vain imaginations.

Because of love, or hunger for gain, and the like, men will not forsake the world; then in order
to cast it aside the wise will lay to heart these thoughts.

Passion is overcome only by him who has won through stillness of spirit the perfect vision.
Knowing this, I must first seek for stillness; it comes through the contentment that is regardless
of the world.

What creature of a day should cling to other frail beings, when he can never again through thousands
of births behold his beloved?

Yet when he sees him not, he is ill at ease; he rests not in concentred thought; and even when
he beholds him he is not satisfied, but is distressed by the same longing as before.

He sees not things in their reality; he loses his horror of the world; he is consumed by his
grief in yearning for union with the beloved.

In thoughts thereupon his brief life vainly passes away hour by hour; and the eternal Law is
broken for the sake of a short-lived friend!

If he share in the life of the foolish, a man assuredly goes to hell; if he share it not, he
wins hatred; what profits it to have commerce with the foolish?

They are friends for a moment, foes for a moment, wrathful when they should be pleased—how hard
to content are the worldly!

They are angered if wholesomely counselled, and hold me back from good; if I heed them not they
are wroth, and pass into hell.

When can good come of a fool? He is jealous of a better man, contentious with a peer, haughty
towards one that is lower, puffed up by praise, angered by blame.

Exaltation of self, blame of others, discourse in praise of worldly pleasure—some such guilt
will assuredly come from fool to fool.

Thus it is from the union of one with another; evil thereby meets evil. I will live alone, in
peace and untroubled mind.

It is well to flee from the foolish. If he come in thy way, seek to win him over by kindness,
not so as to hold commerce with him, but in a manner of godly indifference.

I will take from him only enough for the holy life, as the bee takes honey from the flower;
thus in every place I will hold myself from commerce with him, like the new moon.

The mortal who thinks of his gains or his honours or the favour of many men will be afraid of
death when it falls upon him.

Whatsoever it be in which the pleasure-crazed spirit takes its delight, that thing becomes a
pain a thousand times greater.

Therefore the wise man will seek not for pleasure, for from desire arises terror; and if it
come of itself, let him stand firm and wait.

Many there are who have found gain, many who have won fame; but none know whither they have
gone, with their gains and their fame.

