For the sake of this morsel of enjoyment, which falls easily to the beast’s lot, man blinded
by his destiny, wastes this brief fortune, that is so hard to win.

For all time lasts the struggle for the welfare of the mean body that is doomed to depart and
fall into hell,

and even a millionth part of this labour would win the rank of the Enlightened. Greater is the
pain of them that are possessed by desire than the pain of the way of holiness, and no
Enlightenment comes to them.

Neither sword, nor poison, nor fire, nor fall into abysses, nor foemen may be compared to the
desires, if we bear in mind the agonies of hell and the like.

Then shrink from the desires, and learn delight in solitude, in the peaceful woodlands void
of strife and toil.

Happy are they who are fanned by the sweet silent breezes of the forest, as they walk upon the
pleasant rock-floors broad as in a palace and cooled by the moonbeams’ sandal ointment,
and take thought for the weal of their fellow-creatures!

Dwelling anywhere for what time they will, in deserted sanctuary, or cave or beneath the trees,
saved form the weariness of winning and guarding possessions, they wander fancy-free at
pleasure.

Indra himself can hardly win the bliss of contentment that is enjoyed by him who wanders homeless
at his own free will and unattached to aught.

By pondering in such wise upon the excellences of solitude a man stills vain imaginations and
strengthens his Thought of Enlightenment.

First he will diligently foster the thought that his fellow-creatures are the same as himself.
“All have the same sorrows, the same joys as I, and I must guard them like myself.

The body, manifold of parts in its division of members, must be preserved as a whole; and so
likewise this manifold universe has its sorrow and its joy in common.

Although my pain may bring no hurt to other bodies, nevertheless it is a pain to me, which I
cannot bear because of the love of self;

and though I cannot in myself feel the pain of another, it is a pain to him which he cannot
bear because of the love of self.

I must destroy the pain of another as though it were my own, because it is a pain; I must show
kindness to others, for they are creatures as I am myself.

Since a neighbour and I are equal in desiring happiness,what is the unique quality of the “self”
which requires an effort for happiness?

Since both fear and sorrow are neither desirable to my neighbor nor to me,what is the unique
quality of that “self” which I protect instead of him?

Because I am not oppressed by reason of his sorrow, is he not to be protected?Am I not to protect
myself from the injury which will come from the sorrow of future bodies?

Surely it is a false calculation to think that there is an “I,”because it is another who has
died and it is another who is born.

So if anyone is protected from any sorrow, it is regarded as his own.The sorrow of the foot
is not that of the hand, so why is it protected by the hand?

Even if unrelated, it arises from the Ego-maker.Whatever is unrelated, both to one’s self or
to another, is to be annulled with all one’s might.

