Now he who is patient will seek for strength, for in strength lies Enlightenment. Without strength
there is no righteous work, as without the wind, there is no motion.

And what is strength? Vigour in well-doing. What is its contrary called? Faintness, clinging
to base things, despair, self-contempt.

From inaction, delight in pleasure, slumber, and eagerness for repose springs a spirit that
feels no horror at the miseries of life, and from this arises faintness.

Pursued by the Passions, those fishers, thou hast come into the net of Birth, and knowest thou
not that this selfsame day thou hast fallen into the jaws of Death?

Seest thou not thy comrades smitten down one after the other? and withal thou fallest into slumber
like a bullock in the butcher’s hands.

Watched by the Death-god, thy ways hemmed in on every side, how canst thou find delight in food,
how canst thou sleep and love?

Wait a little while, until Death shall have gathered his instruments, and he will come swiftly
upon thee; then it will be an ill time for thee to cast off thy faintness, and what wilt
thou do?

“This work untouched, this begun, this standing half-done—and lo! Death has suddenly fallen
upon me! Alas I am undone!”

Such will be thy thoughts, whilst thou lookest upon thy despairing kinsmen with their eyes swollen
and red with tears in the passion of their grief, and upon the faces of the Death-god’s
messengers,

whilst thou liest racked by the memory of thy sins, hearing the noises of hell, altogether overwhelmed—and
oh, what wilt thou do?

It is well for thee to think fearfully of thyself here as of a living fish, much more so for
the sinner to dread the fierce anguish of hell.

Thou art burnt if warm water touch thee, tender creature that thou art; and when thou doest
damnable sins, how canst thou sit thus comfortably?

O wreched soul, that longest for reward unearned by striving, thou that art so tender and much
afflicted, thou immortal, thou art devoured by Death, and undone!

Thou hast found the ship of manhood; then sail in it across the broad river of sorrow. Fool,
this is no time for slumber; it will be hard to find the ship again.

How canst thou forsake the noble delight in the Law, which brings an endless course of comforts,
and find pleasure in wantonness, mirth, and other like sources of sorrow?

The spirit that knows not despair, the troops of the Army, devoted heed, self-submission, equal
esteem of self and others, and regard of others in place of self [are the supports of
strength].

Let me not despair that the Enlightenment will come to me; for the Blessed One, the speaker
of truth, has revealed this truth,

that they who by force of striving have gained hard-won supreme Enlightenment have been erstwhile
gnats, gadflies, flies, and worms.

Now I am a man by birth, able to know good and evil: why shall I not win the Enlightenment by
following the rule of the All-knowing?

If I am afraid when I think that I must give my hand and foot, it is because in my heedlessness
I confound things of great and of small weight.

