Not only do you not detest your own excrement, O ravenous for feces!You desire other vessels
of excrement!

When dainty foods, the seasoning of boiled rice, camphor, and so forth,are thrown from the mouth
and spit out, even the earth becomes impure.

If you do not admit the excrement [of your own body], although it is before your eyes,then observe
the horrible bodies of others who have been thrown into a cemetery.

When the skin splits open great fear arises as a consequence.How indeed can joy ever arise again
after one has known what it is like to be in that place?

The perfume which pervades the body [of the corpse] is from sandalwood and not from anything
else.Why are you attracted elsewhere because of the perfume belonging to another?

If you foul-smelling person is not an object of passion, is that not indeed propitious?Why does
the world, longing for that which is contrary to its welfare, anoint it with perfume?

What then has happened to the body if its pleasant smell is sandalwood?Why are you attracted
elsewhere because of the perfume belonging to another?

If the hair and nails are long, the teeth are spotted and yellow,the naked body, covered with
dirt, is horrible by nature.

Why do you adore it zealously, providing a sword for self-destruction?The earth is filled with
madmen labouring for self-deception.

Having seen many skeletons, you find that a cemetery is disgusting to you:But you delight in
a village, which is a cemetery filled with walking skeletons.

And yet even that excrement is not obtained without price:the fatigue of achieving prosperity
and the torment which begins in hell.

The child has not the ability to earn: What pleasure is there in youth?Youthfulness passes in
earning. Grown old, what is done for pleasure?

Some, who have evil desires, are thoroughly worn-out at the day’s end because of their occupations:Coming
home in the evening they lie down as if they were dead.

Others, because of military expeditions, are grieved by the anguish of dwelling abroad:For years
they do not see the sons and the wives for whom they long.

Whoever has sold himself for prosperity, because of the infatuation of desire, he has not obtained
it:But instead, his life has been led vainly in the service of others.

Their own bodies having been sold, they always are engaged in rendering service,while their
wives give birth in forest thickets and such places.

They go into battle at the risk of their lives just in order to live.The bewildered, distorted
by desire, go into slavery for the sake of pride.

Some who are victims of desire are thrown on spikes and pierced;others are beheld burning and
smitten with swords.

Mark how fortune brings endless misfortunes by the miseries of winning it, guarding it, and
losing it; men’s thoughts cling altogether to their riches, so that they have not a moment
to free themselves from the sorrows of life.

Thus they who are possessed by desire suffer much and enjoy little, as the ox that drags a cart
gets but a morsel of grass.

