Because of excessive attachment to “self,” even the slightest fear causes fear.Who would not
hate that “self,” who, like an enemy, is a carrier of fear;

who, desiring a defense against sickness, hunger, thirst, and the like,destroys birds, fish,
animals, and stands as their antagonist;

who, for the sake of profit and honour would kill even his parents;who would steal even the
Three Jewels, the inheritance which he has received; and who would be fuel for Avīcī:

What wise man would desire that “self”? Who would protect it? Who would worship it?Who would
not regard it as an enemy? Who would honour it?

One thinks, “What shall I eat if I make an offering?” For the sake of the “self” he becomes
a demon.One thinks, “What shall I give if I eat?” For the sake of another he becomes the King
of the Gods.

Having injured another for the sake of the “self,” one is cooked in hell:Having injured himself
for the sake of another, he is endowed with all prosperity.

That wish for self-elevation which [creates] an evil destiny, baseness, and stupidity,[creates]
a good destiny, honour, and intelligence when one has transferred it elsewhere.

Having ordered another for self-benefit, one experiences slavery:Having ordered himself for
the benefit of another, he experiences power, and the like.

All of those who are in a condition of unhappiness in the world are that way because of desiring
their own release.All of those who are in a condition of happiness in the world are that
way from seeking the release of another.

But why so much speaking? Let that difference be seen which is between the fool who is concerned
with his own benefit,and the sage who creates benefit for another.

There is certainly no accomplishment, no Buddhahood, or even happiness in the realms of rebirth,for
the one who does not exchange his own happiness for the sorrow of another.

Not even considering the next world, our welfare here does not prosper.The workman does not
do that for which he is paid; the master does not give wages to the workman.

After forsaking the origin of mutual happiness (the flowering of happiness whether seen or unseen),the
infatuated grasp at terrible sorrow, because sorrow is mutual.

Whatever calamities there are, and whatever sorrows and fears come to the world,they are all
the result of attachment to “self.” Why is that attachment mine?

Not having extinguished “self,” one is not able to extinguish sorrow;just as one who has not
extinguished a fire is not able to extinguish the burning.

It follows that for the sake of tranquilizing my own sorrow, and for the tranquilizing of the
other’s sorrow,I give myself to others and I accept others like myself.

That I am another is certainly well understood: Accept it, O mind!Having cast off all for the
sake of beings, nothing else is to be considered by you tomorrow.

It is not suitable to employ sight [and similar faculties] for self-benefit, because the eyes,
and so forth, are theirs.It is not suitable to move the hands for self-benefit, because
they belong to others.

After giving yourself to other beings, whatever you see in the bodywhich may be applied to the
advantage of others, is to be taken away from it.

After establishing “selfhood” in the most lowly, and the stranger in the “self,”both envy and
pride may arise without scruple of the mind.

