That for the sake of which thou hast bowed many a time before bawds, heeding not sin nor infamy,

and cast thyself into peril and wasted thy substance, that which by its embrace has brought
thee supreme delight—

it is naught but bones, now free and unpossessed; wilt thou not take thy fill of embraces now,
and delight thyself?

This was the face that erstwhile turned downwards in modesty and was unwilling to look up, hidden
behind a veil whether eyes gazed upon it or gazed not;

and this face now the vultures unveil to thee, as though they could not bear thy impatience.
Look on it—why dost thou flee now from it?

It was this which was protected from even the glance of another’s eye that now is devoured.Why
do you not jealously protect it?

After you have seen this mountain of flesh devoured by vultures and other scavengers,you do
not honour their food with garlands, sandal, and ornaments?

You are terrified by the sight of this motionless skeleton.Why are you not also afraid of it
when it is moved by some demon?

Saliva and excrement are born from the same source—from food!Since excrement is unpleasant to
you, how can the drinking of saliva [in a kiss] be so precious?

Those who love have intercourse with mere pillows that are filled with cotton and soft to the
touch.Thinking that their emission is not a stench, they are infatuated with excrement.

When it is covered, even this [body] is an object of passion. Why is it not loved when it is
uncovered?If the covering is not the object, why is it caressed?

If these two impurities [of bone and of flesh] are not objects of passion for you, whyembrace
again a cage of bones fastened with sinews and completely smeared with the filth of flesh?

By means of your own great excrement be content!You who are ravenous for feces, forget that
other pouch of excrement!

“I love that flesh,” you say. You desire to see and to touch.How can you want flesh when by
its nature it is without thought?

That thought which you seek, you are not able to see or to touch;and that which you can touch
and see does not realize it. Why then do you embrace in vain?

It is no wonder that you do not realize the body of another to be excrement;but that you do
not perceive your own body to be excrement is amazing.

After having renounced the young lotus, radiant with the rays of the sun in a cloudless sky,what
joy is there to the mind to be drunk with excrement in a cage of feces?

If you do not wish to touch the earth, and so forth, because it is smeared with excrement,how
can you wish to touch that body from which the refuse is cast out?

If you do not have a passion for these two impurities [the body and its refuse],why do you embrace
another who is born from a field of excrement, its seed and that by which it grows?

You do not desire the filthy worm which is produced from excrement, because of its minuteness:But
you seek that great excrement—the body born of excrement!

