Manifold are the pains, the sorrows, the terrors, and the disappointments that arise to sinners.

Whithersoever the desire of the righteous turns, it is greeted with happy issue, because of
their merits;

and whithersoever turns the sinner’s yearning for pleasure, it is smitten with swords of pain,
because of his sins.

They that are godly of works enter the wombs of broad, sweet-smelling, cool lotus-blossoms;
their lustrous forms grow nurtured by the Conqueror’s sweet melody; then they issue in comely
beauty from the lotus-flowers awakened by the sunbeams of the Holy One, and are born as
sons of the Blessed in the presence of the Blessed.

As to them that are flayed of their whole skin by the Death-god’s henchmen, their bodies bathed
with copper molten in the fire, their flesh cut off in gobbets by hundreds of blows from
flaming swords and pikes, and they fall again and again upon beds of red-hot iron.

Then let the love of righteousness be with you, and be heedful thus to foster it. In setting
his hand to work one should foster pride, according to the rule of the Varja-dhvaja Sūtra.

When he has first considered the sum of circumstances, he will either begin it, or not begin
it; for it is better not to begin at all than to leave undone what has been begun.

For this practice will last even into other births, and from such sin will arise abounding sorrow;
and not only is the present work not accomplished, but likewise others that might be
done in the same time come not to pass.

In respect of three things may pride be borne—man’s works, his temptations, and his power. The
pride or works lies in the thought “for me alone is the task.”

This world, enslaved by passion, is powerless to accomplish its own weal; then I must do it
for them, for I am not impotent like them.

Shall another do a lowly task while I am standing by? If I in my pride will not do it, better
it is that my pride perish.

The very crow becomes a Garuḍa when he lights upon a dead lizard; if my spirit is feeble, the
least occasion of sin will overcome me.

To him who is palsied by a faint hear occasions of sin come abundantly; but he who has a noble
pride ever alert is unconquerable even by great temptations.

Then with firm spirit I will undo the occasions of undoing; if I should be conquered by them,
my ambition to conquer the threefold world would be a jest.

I will conquer all; none shall conquer me. This is the pride that I will bear, for I am the
son of the conqueror-Lions.

Creatures who are overcome by arrogance bear the title of misery, not of pride; he that is proud
falls not into the power of the foe, but they are slaves to the foe Arrogance.

Through arrogance they are brought into evil estate, and even in human birth lose their joys,
eating the bread of others, slaves, fools, uncomely, wasted away;

despised on all sides are the wretched stiff in arrogance; if they are ranked with the proud,
say, who are the miserable?

Proud, victorious, heroic are they who set their pride on conquest of the foe Arrogance, who
overthrow him in all his might, and freely show to the world the fruit of their conquest.

Surrounded by the troop of the Passions, a man should become a thousand times prouder, and be
as unconquerable to their hordes as a lion to flocks of deer.

