Make thine own self lose its pleasures and bear the sorrow of thy fellows; mark its deceit at
each time and in each act.

Cast upon its head the guilt even of others’ works; make confession to the Great Saint of even
its slightest sin.

Darken its glory by telling of the greater glory of others. Make it a carrier in thy fellow-creatures’
service, like a mean slave.

It is made of sin, and because it may have some chance morsel of goodness from without, it is
not therefore worthy of praise. Let no man know its goodness.

In short, let all the wrong that thou hast done for the sake of thine own self to others fall
upon thine own self for the sake of thy fellow-creatures.

Grant it no power to talk overmuch; keep it in the condition of a young bride, abashed, timid,
and guarded.

Bend it to thy will by commanding it how it shall act and stand and forbear, and chastise it
for disobedience.

“O my spirit, thou wilt not do as I bid thee; then I will chastise thee, for in thee all sins
find a home.

Whither wilt thou go? I shall see thee, and overthrow all thy pride; the days are gone when
I let myself be undone by thee.

Put away now the hope that thou canst still seek an advantage of thine own; I have sold thee
into the hands of others, heeding not however much thou mayst suffer.

For if through heedlessness I deliver thee not over to my fellow-creatures, thou wilt doubtless
deliver me to the warders of hell.

Many times has thou thus betrayed me, and long have I been racked; remembering these deeds of
enmity, I will destroy thee, thou slave of self-seeking.”

If thou lovest thyself, thou must have no love of self; if thou wouldst save thyself, thou dost
not well to be saving of self.

The more heedfully the body is guarded, the sorer are its sufferings and the deeper its fall.

But despite its fall, the whole earth cannot satisfy the lust of the flesh; who can do its will?

To him who longs for the impossible come guilt and bafflement of desire; but he who is utterly
without desire has a happiness that ages not.

Then give no room for the lust of the flesh to swell; blessed indeed is the thing that is not
imagined for the sake of pleasantness.

The body is a motionless thing stirred by something without, and ending in ashes, a loathsome
frame of foulness; why do I cling to it?

What have I to do with this machine, alive or dead? What distinguishes it from such things as
clods of earth? Alas, O thought of self, thou wilt not die!

Through complicity with the flesh I win sorrow, all to no purpose; it is no better than a thing
of wood, and what should avail its hatred or its kindness?

