And let the fearful be without fear, and those afflicted with sorrow be the obtainers of joy;and
let those distressed be without distress, and at peace.

Let the sick be well; let all be freed from bondage;let the weak be strong, and thoughts mutually
affectionate.

May every region be auspicious for those who travel on the road.May everything prosper which
will help them get to their homes.

And may those held back by a sea voyage find fulfilment of their heart’s desire.Having peacefully
arrived at shore, may they rejoice with their parents.

May those who have fallen into a trackless waste find themselves encountering a caravan,and
may they travel without fatigue and without fear of robbers, tigers, and the like.

May the gods protect the sleepers, the insane, the heedless,the ones in danger in pestilent
forest or the like—the helpless, whether young or old.

May they be freed from all importunities; possessing faith, wisdom, and compassion;endowed with
good appearance and conduct; and always remembering previous births.

May they have boundless treasures like the Gaganagañja.May they be free from opposing commitments,
without expedients, and grow in dependence upon one’s self.

May beings who have little strength become of great strength.May those who are wretched and
deformed become endowed with beautiful form.

Whoever are women in the world, may they achieve manhood.Let the lowly obtain it and yet let
them remain without pride.

By these my merits may beings everywhere, without exception,having desisted from all evils,
always behave in a proper manner;

not be separated from the Thought of Enlightenment; be devoted to the Way of Enlightenment,surrounded
by Buddhas, and free from the works of Māra.

Thus may all beings have unlimited spans of life.May their lives be eternally happy. May even
the word “death” perish.

May all regions be filled with Buddhas and Buddha-sons,and be made enjoyable by parks of wishing
trees and by the fascinating sound of the Dharma.

May the earth be everywhere devoid of gravel and smooth as the hand’s palm,pliant, and filled
with cat’s eye jewels.

May groups of Bodhisattvas in great assemblies sit in all places.May they adorn the surface
of the earth with their splendour.

By means of all birds and trees, and even by rays from the sky,may the sound of the Dharma be
heard unceasingly by all beings.

May they eternally be in union with Buddhas and Buddha-sons,and with endless clouds of worship
may they reverence the Guru of the World.

May the god send rain in due season, and the rain be abundant,and the earth be rich, and the
king abide in the Law.

And may medicinal herbs be powerful; may spells of invocations succeed;may demons (ḍākinīs,
rākṣasas, and such) be active in compassion.

