Whatever benefit is mine from creating this Introduction to the Way of Enlightenment,by it may
all beings become ornaments to the Way of Enlightenment.

Let as many beings as there are in all places, who are suffering pain of body or of thought,obtain
by my merits oceans of happiness and of joy.

As long as there is rebirth, may there be no loss of happiness to them in any way.May the world
unceasingly obtain the happiness of the Bodhisattva.

In as many hells as are found in all spheres of the universe,may beings enjoy the happiness
and the pleasures of paradise.

May those who suffer from cold obtain heat, and may those who suffer from heat be cooledby the
oceans of rains produced by the great Bodhisattva-clouds.

May the sword-leaf forest of Yama’s hell become the majestic forest of Indra’s paradise,and
the torturing trees be reborn as wishing trees.

May the regions of hell become charming, with lakes filled with the perfumes of unbounded lotus,and
with the beauty and delightful cries of geese, ducks, cranes, and swans.

May the charcoal mound become a heap of jewels. And may the heated earth become a crystal pavement.And
may the crushing mountains become celestial mansions filled with Buddhas.

May the shower of swords, stones, and burning charcoal be henceforth a flower-rain;and the unceasing
battle of swords be afterwards a joyful flower-battle for the sake of sport.

May those who are submerged in the burning waters of the river of hell—their skeleton-bodies
the colour of jasmine,their flesh wholly destroyed—obtain by the power of my merit, celestial
natures and live by the river of heaven with the goddesses.

May the trembling demons of Yama and the terrible crows and vultures suddenly behold the darkness
dispersed; and ask themselves, “who can illumine with moonlight, begetting happiness
and joy on every side?”and having seen flaming Vajrapāṇi coming through the firmament, having
beheld freedom from sin and seen distress disappear, may they thus embrace with him.

Let fall a lotus-rain mingled with perfumed waters so that even the dwellers of hell may be
quieted.Let them wonder, “What is this?” as they are refreshed with happiness. Let Kamalapāṇi
appear to the inhabitants of hell.

Come! Come, quickly! Let fear depart! brothers who were living beings. That Prince with necklaces,
the flaming bearer of peace, has descended to us;he at whose gesture all calamity disappears,
floods of pleasure arise, the total Thought of Enlightenment is born, and also
compassion, the mother-refuge of all beings.

Behold! At the foot of his lotus are the shining diadems of hundreds of gods. At his head, his
vision blurred with compassion, there is a rainstorm of many flowersfalling from pleasing
aerial palaces wherein thousands of feminine divinities sing his praises. Let there resound
also, as is proper, the acclamation of those in hell as they behold Mañjughoṣa before
them.

By my merits may those in hell welcome the appearance of clouds of Bodhisattvas; freed from
hindrance;headed by Samantabhadra; joyful, cool, sweet-smelling, windy rains.

Let them quiet the intense agonies and fears of hell.May those dwelling in misfortune be released
from their misfortunes.

May the fear vanish which animals have of being eaten by one another.May ghosts become happy
beings like the men of northern India.

May ghosts be refreshed; may they be bathed, and always cooled,by the streams of milk trickling
from the fingers of the noble Avalokiteśvara.

May the blind behold forms. May the deaf always hear, and may pregnant women give birth, like
Queen Māyā [mother of the Buddha] without pain.

May all have clothes, food and drink, garlands, sandalwood fragrance, ornaments,all that the
heart desires, and all that is most advantageous.

