May no being whatsoever be unhappy, sinful, sick, forsaken, or despised;and none whatsoever
wretched or melancholy.

May the monasteries be prosperous and full of good reading and recitation.May the congregation
be eternally complete, and the work of the congregation prosper.

May the monks be those who attain discrimination and zeal for the discipline.May they meditate
with thoughts skilful and freed from all distraction.

May the nuns be accepted, free from quarrels and weariness.Let them observe the entire rule.
Thus all may become true mendicants.

May the ill-behaved be terrified, always devoted to the diminution of evil.Those who would find
Buddhahood, may their vows be unbroken.

May the scholars be honoured, received, and given alms.Let their lineage be pure; let it be
universally known and praised.

Not suffering the sorrow of existing in an evil state, without painful experience,may living
beings obtain the state of Buddhahood by means of a unique and celestial body.

May all the company of Buddhas be worshipped in all ways by all beings.May they be exceedingly
happy with inconceivable Buddha happiness.

May that which has been desired by the Bodhisattvas for the sake of the world succeed.Whatever
those Lords think, may it be accomplished by beings.

In like manner, let Pratyekabuddhas and Śrāvakas be happy,eternally worshipped with respect
by gods, antigods, and men.

May I obtain the memory of previous births,and may I attain forever the Level of Delight, by
the help of Mañjughoṣa.

In whatever position may I maintain possession of power.In all births may I obtain the total
perfume of discrimination.

As long as I desire to see and to question him in any way whatever,may I behold without hindrance
the Lord Mañjunātha.

As Mañjuśrī walks in ten directions and to the sky’s edgefor the furthering of the prosperity
of all beings, let my career be like his.

As long as the existence of space and as long as the existence of the world,that long let my
existence be devoted to the world’s sorrows.

Whatever the sorrow of the world, may all that ripen in me;and may the world be comforted by
all of the glorious Bodhisattvas.

Only medicine for the world’s sorrow, cause of all happiness and success,may the teaching [of
the Buddha], accompanied by benefit and honour, endure for a long time.

I pay homage to Mañjughoṣa by the favor which makes beautiful the thought.I honour the Good
Friend by the favour which he has thus increased.

X: Consummation

